In this video, we'll continue
with our checkout form and we'll review cart totals.
So our forum currently has a section for cart totals
and you've seen this already in our checkout
and we need to add the appropriate code to support this
because right now we have a problem,
the total quantity is zero and the price is zero
and we need to update that.
Now let's take a look
at our cart service publishing messages and events.
So recall that we send messages
and events to other components in our application.
For example, the cart status component will subscribe
to the cart service,
and the cart service will publish messages
for, the total price and the total quantity.
And we've already implemented pub, sub in our application.
The next set of slides
I'm simply just going to do a refresher, a review
of the code that we have in place, because it will apply
to the new things that we're going to add
to the checkout form.
So remember in our application interaction,
we have our product list component
in the top left,
we have our cart status component in the top right,
and then down in the center we have our cart service.
And so our cart status component will subscribe
to the cart service for events.
We'll add some items to our shopping cart
that'll send data over to the cart service.
And then the cart service will publish those events
to all subscribers.
So since the cart status component is a subscriber,
it'll read those events and update the user interface
for the total price and quantity.
And again, we already have this functionality in place.
This is simply a quick refresher.
So let's look at the coding here for the cart service.
So in the cart service we have a subject
for total price and a subject for a total quantity.
And so remember, a subject is a subclass of observable.
We can use the subject to publish events
in our code,
and the event will be sent to all subscribers.
And so this cart status component,
they simply subscribe to events on these given subjects.
So now with the cart service we actually publish events.
So in our cart service
we had this method, compute cart totals.
We'd set up a price and a quantity value.
We'd simply build all for loop
through all of our cart items
to compute the totals, doing the math accordingly.
And then we publish the new values
so all subscribers will receive the new data.
So at the bottom here
I have this.totalprice.next, totalpricevalue,
this.totalquantity.next, totalquantityvalue.
So this will actually publish the events
to all subscribers.
One event for total price,
and one even for total quantity.
And so this will kind of accomplish step three here
of publishing those events to all subscribers.
And now a bit more on the cart status component
to subscribe to the cart service.
So in our cart status component,
we have this total price, total quantity.
We simply inject the cart service into the constructor.
We do this update card status,
and then we actually write the code here to subscribe
to those events.
So I've subscribed to the cart status with total price
by saying cartservice.totalprice.subscribe.
So when those new events are received,
we'll make the assignments to update the UI accordingly.
So that's for total price.
And then we do a similar subscribe for total quantity,
the exact same thing.
Okay.
And again, we already have this coding in place.
Just to give you a quick refresher to kind of get you back
up to speed.
Now using his pub, sub,
we can actually take a similar approach
for the checkout component.
But I'd like to say almost.
So the checkout component is going to subscribe
to events from the cart service.
However, since the checkout component is instantiated later
in the application, we'll actually miss
out on some of the previous messages.
So as a result, this checkout component cart totals,
will erroneously show zero for quantity,
and zero for price.
And that's not good.
We somehow need to get a replay
of the messages that we missed earlier.
So we need to have a replay on the messages.
And this is kind of similar to the real world, right?
You're running a meeting,
there's always that one person
on your team who shows up late.
"Hey, sorry I'm late to the meeting.
"Can you tell me what I missed?"
And then you're like,
"Oh gosh!
"Really?
"Show up on time next time."
But anyways, we'll be nice.
I'll say, "Okay, great.
"We'll replay the previous messages for you."
Okay?
And so we can get this functionality
with the replay subject.
Mmh, replay subject.
So recall the subject is used to send events to subscribers
so the replay subject is a subclass of subject.
So it'll also replay events
for new subscribers who join later.
It actually keeps a buffer of the previous events
and will send these to the new subscribers.
So this'll cover that case of,
"Hey, sorry I'm late to the meeting.
"Can you tell me what I missed?"
And we'll be like, "Hey, no problem.
"We got you covered.
"This meeting is being recorded
"and here's a replay of everything that you missed."
We're going to be really nice at this meeting.
(instructor chuckles)
Now let's look at how a subject works without replay.
Okay, so we're doing this without replay.
So in the top left
I have the cart service, total price, subject.
We have our timeline going left to right.
We have our card status component
that'll subscribe to the total price subject.
Then we do some operations on our shopping cart.
We have some events coming through for A,
and then we have another set of events coming through for B.
And so later on we'll instantiate the checkout component
and it'll actually subscribe.
And so it'll only receive the new events
after subscribing, right?
So we don't have any replay in place.
We're not recording the meeting so,
"Sorry.
"We can only tell you about the new stuff that happens
"since you've been here at the meeting."
All right?
So that's how subject works without replay.
But again, let's be nice here
and let's record the meeting here.
So we'll have this replay subject.
So again, up top we have our cart service, total price.
The one thing that's new, it's a replay subject.
We have our cart status component
that will actually subscribe.
So we get these events A and these events B.
And then we have our checkout component
and this checkout component subscribes late.
But no worries here.
Replay events for new subscribers who join later.
So they're going to receive these because of the replay
because this meeting is being recorded.
So they'll get those items A-OK.
So those will cover the use case
if they show up to the meeting late
and they need to find out what they missed.
And then of course
they'll get all the new events that come on online too.
That's kind of how the replay subject works
and how it's different
than the normal subject without replay.
So now, as far as the coding changes
to use a replay subject,
it's really simple.
In your cart service,
instead of having subject,
you simply change that to replay subject.
And that's it.
It'll keep a buffer of the previous events
and it'll send those previous events to all new subscribers.
And you can also configure this.
You can tell it the size of the buffer, so on and so forth.
And so for more details on replay subject,
see the online docs, go to the link here on the slide.
It'll redirect you
to the official documentation for replay subjects
and you can get all the configuration details.